# BulkyMIDI-32 Gameport
While the MT32-PI actually has quite a lot of options for connecting the device up to everyones favourite IBM PC/AT compatible computers, I wanted something that'd work with the real Roland MT-32 as well so that I could make a more direct comparison between the two.

One caveat we need to address before moving on is that the real MT-32 actually pre-dates what we would now call MIDI, so it's definitely not as easy as every gamer would expect! The reason for this is that Roland designed the solution so that you'd need a separate, mostly *unobtainium*, module called the MPU-401 in addition to the expected interface card - these two gives you *intelligent-mode MIDI*. Connected to a regular MIDI-port or by using this adapter directly merely gives a *UART-based MIDI*, which would normally be fine - except you now have something that'd operate as what is commonly referenced to as *General MIDI* connected up to a device created before its existance (meaning it won't sound correct). Someone solved that for most of the game, essentially by making a TRS program that'd take care of the intelligent part of the setup and output it to a serial port or gameport - this is called [SoftMPU](http://bjt42.github.io/softmpu/). 

- **Short story**: the hardware you need is hard to get, easy to use hardware options won't work as expected in the games you'd expect to support the Roland MT-32 (typically Sierra and Lucasfilm games). Connect this adapter to your MPU-401 compatible sound card without the hanging-note bug, then run [SoftMPU](http://bjt42.github.io/softmpu/) for a software alternative to the missing intermediary hardware.
- **Even shorter story**: Plug this adapter into gameport on good soundcard (Creative AWE32/AWE64, earlier have a bad bug). Connect to connect MIDI OUT on adapter to MIDI IN on the Roland MT-32/MT32-PI. Run [SoftMPU](http://bjt42.github.io/softmpu/) on computer before attempting to start Monkey Island.

Given that talented people have already created most of what we'd ever need for our retro-computers, all I had to do in order to create this adapter was implement schematics already made. The one that seemed to make the most sense to me was the adapter designed by Jeff Glatt, described in detail on his [homepage](http://midi.teragonaudio.com/hardware/pc_intfc.htm). All I did was transcribe the schematic and design a PCB around it, but it's here if you want it.