# Play
Play is implemented using an *Arduino Nano* with the ATmega328P Microcontroller, in this folder you will find the sketch that runs on it. The really hard parts are done by the [MD_MIDIFile](https://github.com/MajicDesigns/MD_MIDIFile)-library, and the not quite so hard was adapted from the examples that come with said library. The easiest parts were added by me, mostly as a bit of a fun exercise as well as actually use the display and rotary encoder that can be found on the PCB designed for it.

The usage of the module should be straight-forward when you realize that the function of buttons are triggered upon button releases instead of presses. The reason for this was to introduce a difference between *quick* presses and a slightly longer, and hopefully *intentional* button push. Clicking the rotary encoder will play the selected file, a longer push will give you what "could" be considered a menu of sorts - use rotary encoder to move between symbols shown to the right. Menu allows for regular playback of file (because you didn't want the menu), a looped playback as well as an option for automatically playing the next file when the current one finishes. In addition there's now a way to enable a simple metronome function as well as showing the version of the current firmware.

## Libraries
While the installation of libraries are handled automatically when using PlatformIO from within Visual Studio Code, but I recognize that many will simply want to get the code onto the board while using the standard *Arduino IDE* instead. In that case you may need to install libraries manually, these are listed at the end of "platformio.ini".